Solid State
Solids: their classification based on different
binding forces such as: ionic, covalent
molecular; amorphous and crystalline solids
(difference), metals. Type of unit cell in two
dimensional and three dimensional lattices,
number of atoms per unit cell (all types).
Calculation of density of unit cell, packing in
solids, packing efficiency, point defects,
electrical and magnetic properties.
Band theory of metals. Conductors,
semiconductors (n and p type) and insulators.
(i) Crystalline and amorphous solids.
(ii) Definition of crystal lattice, unit cell; types of
unit cell (scc, fcc, bcc); calculation of the
number of atoms per unit cell; relationship
between radius, edge length and nearest
neighbour distance. Calculation of density of
unit cell, formula of the compound –
numericals based on it; packing in 3 – D,
packing fraction in scc, fcc, bcc with
derivation.
(iii) Characteristics of crystalline solids; ionic
(NaCl), metallic (Cu), atomic (diamond and
graphite).
(iv) Point defects: Stoichiometric, non-
stoichiometric and impurity defects
(F- centres).
(v) Electrical properties: Conductors,
semiconductors (n & p types) and insulators.
(vi) Magnetic properties: diamagnetic,
paramagnetic.
2. Solutions
Study of concentration of solutions of solids in
liquids, liquid in liquid, solubility of gases in
liquids, Colligative properties - Raoult's law of
relative lowering of
vapour pressure elevation of boiling point,
depression of freezing
point, osmotic pressure. Use of colligative
properties in determining molecular masses of
solutes.
Normality, molality, molarity, mole fraction, as
measures of concentration. Definition of the
above with examples. Simple problems based on
the above.
(i) Solubility of gases in liquids – Henry’s Law,
simple numericals based on the above.
(ii) Raoult’s Law for volatile solutes and non-
volatile solutes, ideal solution, non-ideal
solution. Azeotropic mixtures – definition,
types.
(iii) Colligative properties – definition and
examples, and its use in determination of
molecular mass.
(a) Relative lowering of vapour pressure:
Definition and mathematical expression
of Raoult’s Law. Determination of
relative molecular mass by measurement
of lowering of vapour pressure.
(b) Depression in freezing point: molal
depression constant (cryoscopic
constant) – definition and mathematical
expression (derivation included).
(c) Elevation in boiling point method: molal
elevation constant (ebullioscopic
constant) definition and mathematical
expression (derivation included).
(d) Osmotic pressure: definition and
explanation. Natural and chemical
semipermeable membranes, reverse
osmosis, isotonic, hypotonic and
hypertonic solutions. Comparison
between diffusion and osmosis.
Application of osmotic pressure in the
determination of relative molecular
mass.
van’t Hoff- Boyle’s Law, van’t Hoff –
Charles’ Law, van’t Hoff - Avogadro’s
law.
Numerical problems based on all the above
methods. Experimental details not required.
3. Electrochemistry
Electrolytic and electrochemical cells. Redox
reactions in electrochemical cells.
Electromotive Force (emf) of a cell, standard
electrode potential, Nernst equation and its
application to chemical cells. Relation between
Gibbs energy change and emf of a cell.
Conductance in electrolytic solutions, specific,
equivalent and molar conductivity, variations of
conductivity with concentration. Kohlrausch's
Law of electrolysis and Faraday’s Laws of
electrolysis.
(i) Electrochemical cells: introduction, redox
reactions (principle of oxidation and
reduction in a cell).
(ii) Galvanic cells - introduction;
representation, principle – oxidation
reduction. Mechanism of production of
electric current in a galvanic cell.
(iii) Measurement of potential. Single electrode
potentials.
Standard hydrogen electrode - definition,
preparation, application and limitations.
Standard electrode potential (Eo
) -Measurement of standard electrode potential
of Zn ++ / Zn, Cu ++ / Cu, half cell (using
standard hydrogen electrode).
Cell notation – representation.
Factors affecting electrode potential with
explanation - main emphasis on the
temperature, concentration and nature of the
electrode.
(iv) Electrochemical series. Its explanation on
the basis of standard reduction potential.
Prediction of the feasibility of a reaction.
(v) Nernst equation and correlation with the free
energy of the reaction with suitable
examples.
Prediction of spontaneity of a reaction based
on the cell emf.
Numericals on standard electrode potential
of half-cells, cell emf, relationship between
free energy and equilibrium constant,
standard electrode potential and free energy.
(vi) Comparison of metallic conductance and
electrolytic conductance. Relationship
between conductance and resistance. Specific
resistance and specific conductance.
Cell constant: Calculation of cell constant.
Meaning of equivalent conductance.
Meaning of molar conductance. General
relationship between specific conductance,
molar conductance and equivalent
conductance.
Units, numericals.
Molar conductance of a weak electrolyte at a
given concentration and at infinite dilution.
Kohlrausch’s Law – definition, applications
and numericals.
(vii) Faraday’s laws of Electrolysis.
Faraday’s First Law of electrolysis.
Statement, mathematical form. Simple
problems.
Faraday’s Second Law of electrolysis:
Statement, mathematical form. Simple
problems.
Relation between Faraday, Avogadro’s
number and charge on an electron. F = NAe
should be given (no details of Millikan’s
experiment are required).
4. Chemical Kinetics
Meaning of Chemical Kinetics – slow and fast
reactions. Rate of a reaction - average and
instantaneous rate (graphical representation).
Factors affecting rate of reaction: surface area,
nature of reactants, concentration, temperature,
catalyst and radiation. Order and molecularity
of a reaction, rate law and specific rate constant.
Integrated rate equations and half-life (only for
first order reactions). Concept of threshold and
activation energy, Arrhenious equation.
(i) Meaning of chemical kinetics, Scope and
importance of Kinetics of the reaction, slow
and fast reactions – explanation in terms of
bonds.
(ii) Rate of Reaction: definition, representation
of rate of reaction in terms of reactants and
products, determination of rate of reactions
graphically, instantaneous and average rate
of reaction. Factors affecting rate of
reaction.
(iii)Law of mass Action: statement and meaning
of active mass. Explanation with an example
– general reactions.
(iv) Effect of concentration of reactants on the
rate of a reaction: Qualitative treatment,
based on the law of mass Action, statement of
rate law, General rate equation –
Rate = k(concentration of the reactant)n
,where k is rate constant and n is the order of
the reaction, relationship between the rate of
the reaction with rate constant with respect
to various reactants.
(v) Order of a reaction: meaning, relation
between order and stoichiometric coefficients
in balanced equations, order as an
experimental quantity, rate equation,
mathematical derivation of rate equation for
first order reaction, characteristics of first
order reaction – rate constant is independent
of the initial concentration, units to be
derived, definition of half-life period,
derivation of expression of half-life period
from first order rate equation.
Problems based on first order rate equation
and half-life period.
(vi) Molecularity of the reaction: Meaning –
physical picture, Relation between order,
molecularity and the rate of a reaction,
Differences between order and molecularity
of a reaction.
(vii) The concept of energy: Exothermic and
endothermic reactions, concept of energy
barrier, threshold and activation energy,
formation of activated complex, effect of
catalyst on activation energy and reaction
rate.
(viii) Effect of temperature on the rate constant
of a reaction: Arrhenius equation – K=Ae-
Ea/RT, Meaning of the symbols of Arrhenius
equation, related graph, evaluation of Ea and
A from the graph, meaning of slope of the
graph, conversion from exponential to log
form of the equation, relationship between
the increase in temperature and the number
of collisions. Numerical based on Arrhenius
equation.
5. Surface Chemistry
Absorption and Adsorption - physisorption and
chemisorption, factors affecting adsorption of
gases on solids and liquids. Catalysis;
homogenous and heterogenous, activity and
selectivity.
Colloidal state distinction between true solutions,
colloids and suspension; lyophilic, lyophobic
multi-molecular, macromolecular and associated
colloids; properties of colloids; Brownian
movement, Tyndall effect, coagulation and
electrophoresis. Emulsion - types ofemulsions.
(i) Difference between absorption and
adsorption: definition of physisorption and
chemisorption and their differences.
Factors affecting adsorption of gases on
solids.
(ii)Catalysis: definition, types of catalysts –
positive and negative, homogeneous and
heterogeneous catalyst based on the state of
the reactant and the catalyst, Elementary
treatment of intermediate compound
formation theory with examples; adsorption
Theory, effect of catalyst on the rate of
reaction – the change in the energy of
activation in the activation energy curve.
Characteristics of a catalyst; specificity,
activity, surface area of a catalyst. Promoter
and poison.
(iii)Colloidal State: Thomas Graham classified
the substances as crystalloid and colloid,
classification of substances on the basis of
the particle size i.e. true solution, sol and
suspension, colloidal system is
heterogeneous. lyophilic and lyophobic
colloid; classification of colloidal solutions
as micro, macro and associated colloids.
Properties of colloidal solutions: Brownian
movement, Tyndall effect, coagulation,
electrophoresis (movement of dispersed
phase), Protection of colloids, Hardy-
Schulze rule. Emulsions, surfactants, micelles
(only definition and examples).
Application of colloids and emulsions in
daily life.
6. General Principles and Processes of Isolation
ofElements
Metals: metallurgy, ores, principles and
methods of extraction - concentration,
oxidation, reduction, electrolytic refining.
Occurrence and principles of extraction of
copper, zinc, iron and silver.
Definition of minerals, ores and metallurgy;
principle ores of iron, copper, zinc and silver.
Methods of concentration of ores: hydraulic
washing, magnetic separation, froth floatation
method, leaching.
Extraction of metal from concentrated ore –
calcination, roasting and thermal reduction.
Metallurgy of iron, copper, zinc and silver.
Refining of metals - distillation, liquation,
electrolysis.
7. p-Block Elements
Group-15 Elements
Position in the periodic table, occurrence,
electronic configuration, oxidation states, trends
in physical and chemical properties. Nitrogen:
preparation properties and its uses; compounds
of nitrogen: nitric acid – preparation and
properties. Phosphorus - compounds of
phosphorus: preparation and properties of
phosphine.
(i) General introduction, electronic
configuration, occurrence, oxidation states.
Trends in physical properties; chemical
properties with hydrogen, oxygen and
halogens.
(ii) Nitrogen - Laboratory preparation,
decomposition (ammonium dichromate).
Properties and uses.
(iii) Nitric Acid - Preparation and manufacture.
Properties: reaction with copper (dilute and
concentrated HNO3), carbon and sulphur.
Uses.
(iv) Phosphine – preparation from phosphorus
and properties: reaction with halo acids.
Group-16 Elements
Position in the periodic table, occurrence,
electronic configuration, oxidation states, trends
in physical and chemical properties. Ozone –
methods of preparation. Compounds of
sulphur: preparation, properties and uses of
sulphur-dioxide (industrial process of
manufacture).
(i) Electronic configuration, oxidation
states, occurrence. Trends in physical
properties; chemical properties with
hydrogen, oxygen and halogens.
(ii) Ozone: manufacture by Siemen’s
ozoniser, thermal decomposition of
ozone, its oxidising nature – reaction
with lead sulphide, potassium iodide and
mercury, its uses.
(iii) Sulphur dioxide: laboratory and
industrial preparation from sulphites and
sulphide ores, reaction of sulphur
dioxide with NaOH, Cl2, KMnO4.
Group-17 Elements
Position in the periodic table, occurrence,
electronic configuration, oxidation states,
trends in physical and chemical properties;
Preparation, properties and uses of chlorine.
Interhalogen compounds.
(i) General introduction, electronic
configuration, oxidation states. Trends in
physical properties and chemical
properties (hydrogen, oxygen, halogens
and metals).
(ii) Chlorine – preparation from MnO2 and
HCl, from NaCl, MnO2 and conc. H2SO4
(only equations), reactions of chlorine
with H2S, NH3, cold, dilute NaOH and
hot, concentrated NaOH.
(iii)Interhalogen compounds – structure,
hybridisation and shapes: XX', XX'3,
XX'5, XX'7.
Group-18 Elements
Position in the periodic table, occurrence,
electronic configuration, trends in physical and
chemical properties, inert nature, uses.
(i) General introduction, electronic
configuration, occurrence, trends in
physical; chemical properties, state and low
reactivity.
(ii) Formation of xenon compounds with fluorine
and oxygen (equations only), hybridisation,
shape and structure of compounds.
(iii) Uses of noble gases.
8. d and f Block Elements
Position in the periodic table, occurrence,
electronic configuration and characteristics of
transition metals, general trends in properties of
the 3d-series of transition metals - metallic
character, ionisation enthalpy, oxidation states,
ionic radii, colour of ions, catalytic property,
magnetic properties, properties of K2Cr2O7 and
KMnO4.
Lanthanoids and actinoids.
(i) d-Block: 3d, 4d and 5d series
Study in terms of metallic character, atomic
and ionic radii, ionisation enthalpy,
oxidisation states, variable valency,
formation of coloured compounds, formation
of complexes, alloy formation.
(ii) f-Block: 4f and 5f series
Electronic configuration, atomic and ionic
radii, oxidisation states, formation of
coloured compounds, formation of
complexes. Lanthanoid contraction and its
consequences. Chemical reactivity – with
oxygen, hydrogen, halogen, sulphur,
nitrogen, carbon and water.
Actinoids - oxidation states and comparison
with lanthanoids.
(iii)Potassium permanganate: structure, shape;
its oxidising nature in acidic, basic and
neutral medium, use in redox titration.
Oxidising nature in acidic [FeSO4,
(COOH)2.2H2O, KI], basic (KI) and neutral
(H2S) mediums to be done.
(iv) Potassium dichromate: structure, shape; its
use in titration. Oxidising nature in acidic,
basic and neutral medium, use in redox
titration.
9. Coordination Compounds
Concept of complexes, definition of ligands,
coordination number, oxidation number. IUPAC
nomenclature of mononuclear coordination
compounds. Isomerism (structural and stereo).
Bonding, Werner's theory, VBT. Colour,
magnetic properties and shapes. Importance of
coordination compounds (in qualitative analysis,
extraction of metals and biologicalsystem).
(i) Definition of coordination compounds /
complex compounds, differences with a
double salt, study of ligands – mono-, bi-, tri-
, tetra-, penta-, hexa- and polydentate,
chelating ligands, definition of coordination
number, its calculation for a complex
coordination sphere, study of oxidation state
of an element in a complex, its calculation,
IUPAC rules of nomenclature of
coordination compounds.
(ii) Isomerism – structural, stereo types and
examples.
(iii)Valence bond theory of coordination
compounds – examples of formation of inner
orbital and outer orbital complexes (high
and low spin, octahedral, tetrahedral and
square planar), prediction of magnetic
character.
(iv) Importance and uses.
10. Haloalkanes and Haloarenes.
Haloalkanes: General formula, nomenclature
and classification. Nature of C–X bond,
physical and chemical properties, mechanism
of substitution reactions, opticalrotation.
Haloarenes: Basic idea, nature of C–X bond,
substitution reactions (directive influence of
halogen in monosubstituted compounds only).
Nature of C-X bond
Naming the halogen derivatives of alkanes by
using common system and IUPAC system for
mono, di and tri-halo derivatives.
Preparation of haloalkanes from:
- Alkane and halogen.
- Alkene and hydrogen halide.
- Alcohols with PX3, PCl5 and SOCl2.
- Halide exchange method (Finkelstein and
Swarts)
- Silver salt of fatty acids (Hunsdiecker).
Physical properties: State, melting point, boiling
point and solubility.
Chemical properties: nucleophilic substitution
reactions (SN1, SN2 mechanism in terms of
primary, secondary and tertiary halides)
Reaction with: sodium hydroxide, water, sodium
iodide, ammonia, primary amine, secondary
amine, potassium cyanide, silver cyanide,
potassium nitrite, silver nitrite, silver salt of fatty
acid and lithium-aluminium hydride.
Elimination reaction (Saytzeff’s rule) / ß
elimination.
Reaction with metals: sodium and magnesium
(Wurtz’s reaction, Grignard’s reagent
preparation).
Chloroform and iodoform: preparation and
properties.
Preparation of haloarenes by Sandmeyer’s and
Gattermann’s reaction, by electrophilic
substitution.
Physical properties: State, melting point, boiling
point and solubility.
Chemical properties:
- Electrophilic substitution (chlorination
nitration and sulphonation).
- Nucleophilic substitution (replacement of
chlorine with -OH, -NH2).
- Reduction to benzene.
- Wurtz-Fittig reaction.
- Fittig reaction.
- Addition reaction with magnesium
(formation of Grignard reagent).
11. Alcohols, Phenols and Ethers
Alcohols: Classification, general formula,
structure and nomenclature. Methods of
preparation, physical and chemical properties
(of primary alcohols only), identification of
primary, secondary and tertiary alcohols, uses
with special reference to methanol andethanol.
(i) Classification into monohydric, dihydric and
polyhydric alcohols, general formulae,
structure and nomenclature of alcohols.
Difference between primary, secondary and
tertiary alcohols in terms of structure,
physical properties and chemical properties.
(ii) Methods of preparation:
- Hydration of Alkenes – direct hydration,
indirect hydration, hydroboration
oxidation.
- From Grignard’s reagent.
- Hydrolysis of alkyl halides.
- Reduction of carbonyl compounds.
- From primary amines.
Properties:
- Acidic nature of alcohols:
- Reaction with sodium.
- Esterification.
- Reaction with hydrogen halides.
- Reaction with PCl3, PCl5, and SOCl2.
- Reaction with acid chlorides and acid
anhydrides
- Oxidation.
- Dehydration.
Uses of alcohols.
(iii) Conversion of one alcohol into another.
(iv) Distinction between primary, secondary and
tertiary alcohols by Lucas’ Test.
Phenols: Classification and nomenclature.
Methods of preparation, physical and chemical
properties, acidic nature of phenol, electrophilic
substitution reactions, uses ofphenols.
Preparation of phenol from diazonium salt,
chlorobenzene (Dow’s process) and from
benzene sulphonic acid.
Manufacture from Cumene.
Physical properties: state and solubility.
Chemical properties:
- Acidic character of phenol.
- Reaction with sodium hydroxide.
- Reaction with sodium.
- Reaction with zinc.
- Reaction with acetyl chloride and acetic
anhydride.
- Reaction with phosphorus penta chloride.
- Bromination, nitration and sulphonation
(Electrophilic substitution reactions).
- Kolbe’s reaction (formation of salicylic
acid).
- Reimer – Tiemann reaction
- Test for phenol – FeCl3 test, azo dye test.
Aliphatic Ethers: General formula, structure and
nomenclature. Methods of preparation, physical
and chemical properties, uses.
Ethers: structure of ethereal group.
Preparation from alcohol (Williamson’s
synthesis).
Physical properties: state, miscibility.
Chemical properties:
- Reaction with chlorine.
- Oxidation (peroxide formation).
- Reaction with HI.
- Reaction with PCl5.
12. Aldehydes, Ketones and Carboxylic Acids
Aldehydes and Ketones: Nomenclature,
structure of methods of preparation of
aldehydes and ketones, physical and chemical
properties, mechanism of nucleophilic addition,
reactivity of alpha hydrogen in aldehydes and
uses.
Preparation:
• From alcohol.
• From alkenes (ozonolysis).
• From alkynes (hydration).
• From acid chlorides (Rosenmund’s
reduction, reaction with dialkyl cadmium).
• From calcium salt of carboxylic acids.
• From nitriles (Stephen reaction, Grignard’s
reagent).
• From esters.
Physical properties – state and boiling point.
Chemical properties:
• Nucleophilic addition reactions with
mechanism (ammonia and its derivatives,
HCN, NaHSO3 and Grignard’s reagent).
• Oxidation reactions, iodoform reaction.
• Reduction: reduction to alcohol and alkanes
(Clemmensen’s reduction, Wolff-Kishner
reduction, Red phosphorus and HI).
• Base catalysed reactions: Aldol
condensation, cross Aldol condensation,
Cannizzaro’s reaction.
Tests: difference between formaldehyde and
acetaldehyde; aldehydes and ketones.
Uses of aldehydes and ketones.
Aromatic aldehyde (Benzaldehyde)
Lab preparation from toluene by oxidation with
chromyl chloride.
Physical properties: state and stability.
Chemical properties:
• Oxidation and reduction.
• Nucleophilic addition reaction (hydrogen
cyanide and sodium bisulphite).
• Reactions with ammonia and its derivatives
(hydroxyl amine, hydrazine and phenyl
hydrazine).
• Reaction with phosphorus pentachloride.
• Cannizzaro reaction.
• Benzoin condensation.
• Perkin’s reaction.
• Electrophilic substitution - halogenation,
nitration and sulphonation.
Test: distinction between aromatic and aliphatic
aldehydes.
Uses of benzaldehyde.
Carboxylic Acids: Classification, general
formula and structure of carboxylic group.
Nomenclature, acidic nature, methods of
preparation, physical and chemical properties
and uses.
Classification of mono and di carboxylic acids
with examples.
Preparation of aliphatic and aromatic carboxylic
acid:
- From alcohols, aldehydes.
- From nitriles.
- From Grignard’s reagent.
Physical properties: state, boiling point and
solubility.
Chemical properties:
- Acidic character: (aliphatic, aromatic
carboxylic acids with the effect of
substituents on the acidic character – to be
dealt with in detail)
- Reaction with active metals, alkalies,
carbonates and bicarbonates,
- Formation of acid derivatives.
- Decarboxylation (chemical and Kolbe’s
electrolytic reaction).
- HVZ reactions.
- Substitution of benzene ring (meta directive
effect of carboxylic acid group) nitration and
sulphonation.
Tests for acids: formic acid, acetic acid and
benzoic acid.
Uses of formic acid, acetic acid and benzoic acid.
13. Organic compounds containing Nitrogen
Aliphatic Amines: General formula and,
classification of amines. Structure of the amino
group, nomenclature. Methods of preparation,
physical and chemical properties, uses,
identification of primary, secondary and tertiary
amines.
• Amines
Nomenclature, classification with examples,
structure, general formula.
Methods of preparation:
- From alcohol.
- From alkyl halide.
- From cyanide.
- From amide (Hofmann’s degradation).
- From nitro compounds.
- Gabriel phthalimide Synthesis.
Physical properties: comparison between
primary, secondary and tertiary amines in
terms of – state, solubility, boiling point
(hydrogen bonding), comparison with
alcohols.
Chemical properties:
- Basic character of amines – comparison
between primary, secondary and tertiary
alkyl amines/ ammonia/ aniline. Effect of
substituents on the basic strength of
aniline
- Alkylation and acylation with
mechanism.
- Reaction with nitrous acid.
- Carbylamine reaction.
Distinction between primary, secondary
and tertiary amines (Hinsberg’s Test).
Aniline
Preparation reduction of nitrobenzene.
Physical properties – state, solubility and boiling
point.
Chemical properties:
- Reaction with HCl and H2 SO4 .
- Acetylation, alkylation.
- Benzoylation.
- Carbylamine reaction.
- Diazotisation.
- Electrophilic substitution (bromination,
nitration and sulphonation).
Tests for aniline.
Uses of aniline.
Diazonium salts: Preparation, chemical
reactions and importance in synthetic organic
chemistry.
Preparation from aniline;
Properties: Sandmeyer’s reaction, Gattermann
reaction, replacement of diazo group by – H, -
OH, -NO2, coupling reaction with phenol and
aniline.
14. Biomolecules
Carbohydrates – Definition, Classification
(aldoses and ketoses), monosaccahrides (glucose
and fructose), D-L configuration
oligosaccharides (sucrose), polysaccharides
(starch, cellulose); Importance of carbohydrates.
Carbohydrates: definition, classification - mono
(aldose, ketose), oligo (di, tri, tetra saccharides)
and polysaccharides with examples: reducing
sugars and non-reducing sugars – examples and
uses.
Heating with HI, reaction with hydroxylamine,
bromine water and nitric acid.
Test for glucose and fructose (bromine water test
with equation).
Disaccharides – structure of sucrose (glycosidic
linkage).
Polysaccharides – starch, cellulose, glycogen.
Proteins – structural units of proteins. Basic
idea of - amino acids, peptide bond,
polypeptides, proteins, denaturation of proteins.
Enzymes, hormones - elementary idea only.
Proteins: Amino acids – general structure,
classification and zwitter ion formation.
Isoelectric point.
Classification of proteins on the basis of
molecular shape; denaturation of proteins.
(Definitions only. Details and diagrams are not
required).
Nucleic Acids - DNA and RNA.
Nucleic acids: basic unit – purine and
pyrimidine, DNA – structure (double helical),
RNA (No chemical structure required).
Differences between DNA and RNA.
15. Chemistry in Everyday life
Chemicals in medicines - analgesics,
tranquilizers antiseptics, disinfectants,
antimicrobials, antifertility drugs, antibiotics,
antacids,antihistamines.
In medicine: antipyretics, analgesics,
tranquillisers, antiseptics, disinfectants,
anti-microbials, anti-fertility drugs,
antihistamines, antibiotics, antacids.
Definition, common examples, uses.
Differences between antiseptics and
disinfectants.
Structure not required.
Chemicals in food - preservatives, artificial
sweetening agents, elementary idea of
antioxidants.
Preservatives: role, example (Sodium benzoate).
Artificial sweetening agents: role, examples
(aspartame, saccharine, sucralose and alitame).